And in those two messages, I dealt with behavior in God's church.
I'm so thankful that the church is God's, that he's the head of the church, that he
instituted the church, that he's instructed the church, that the church is God's idea.
And what a blessing to understand that, what a privilege it is to know the truth and to
be part of a local church.
I'm so thankful for the local church and what the local church has done in my life.
I'm thankful that it was a local church, that God used a member of a local church to
bring the gospel to my family.
I'm so thankful that it was a local church that my dad and my mom went to, and they got
saved by the grace of God, and they started to grow, and they started bringing my brother
and I to church, and we eventually got saved as well and began to grow.
And the local church has made such a difference in my life.
Got to think about the privilege for these almost 13 years that God has given me to be
a pastor of a local church.
What a unique privilege and a unique responsibility that God has entrusted me with, and I thank
him regularly for the opportunity.
I'm thankful that the local church is not an organization as much as it's an organism.
It's a living church, it's the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth.
And what a blessing to be involved with and to be engaged in the ministry of the local church.
God has no backup plan for this era.
His plan for this era is the local church.
And he is the one that is the head of the church.
He's the one that said, this is my church.
He said, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
What a blessing to be a part of the local New Testament church.
As we think about the local church, when we think about behavior in God's church, we looked
at those two lessons and dealt with the instruction that God gives.
Why?
Because there's a proper way to behave in the house of God.
Not everything that's called worship today in 2024 is really worship.
There's a lot of things that happen today and all around this globe on a Sunday in the
name of quote-unquote religion that is not aligned with worship according to what God
has set forth in his word.
If you go back to the Old Testament, the children of Israel could not approach God any old way
they wanted to approach God.
They had to approach God on God's terms, God's way.
Amen?
And so much so is the case for the local church.
God has instructed his church, and we know that there's proper behavior.
And what a blessing it is to understand the instruction that God has given.
As we come to verse number 16 of chapter number 3, the Bible says this, what a great, powerful
verse of Scripture.
There is so much in one verse of Scripture that is before us this morning.
The Bible says, and without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness.
God was manifest in the flesh, justified in the Spirit, seen of angels, preached unto
the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up into glory.
Isn't that a powerful verse of Scripture?
I mean, we look at this verse of Scripture and we see all that is contained therein.
There are some theologians of yesteryear that have the idea, the belief that 1 Timothy 3
and verse number 16 stood as maybe an anthem or a hymn for the local church, if you will,
and it was something that would be readily understood and they would sing it and they
would rejoice in the truth that is found in this very just concise verse of Scripture.
But how powerful this verse of Scripture is.
I notice that the Bible begins, without controversy.
I'm so thankful for settled truth.
Amen?
I'm so thankful that God said He, Jesus, He said, I am the way, the truth, and the life.
No man cometh unto the Father but by me.
But then He said, sanctify them by thy word.
Thy word is truth.
What a blessing to have God's word.
What a blessing that God inspired His word, all Scripture is given by inspiration of God,
but then to understand that God providentially preserved His word so that every generation
of believers would have the word of God.
What a blessing.
See, inspiration without preservation is, it's a great doctrinal truth, but the reality
is that we don't have the originals, but I don't need the originals because God promised
to preserve His word, and He has.
And His word is truth, and truth settles everything.
And the verse starts, and without controversy.
There was a settled truth that was understood amongst the early church, amongst the first
century believers, that is outlined in this verse of Scripture, really those points, if
you will, of this great mystery of godliness.
We find that it's without controversy.
Does it mean that there's no one that disagrees?
That's not what it means at all.
There's always going to be false teachers, false prophets as there were in the Old Testament,
false teachers in the New Testament.
We find that even today, and John says this in 1 John, that the spirit of antichrist is
already here.
We understand that one day the antichrist will appear, but the spirit of antichrist
is already at work.
We find that there's many false teachers.
It doesn't mean that there's not someone that would stand in opposition to the truth.
It just simply means that for those of us that know the truth, there's no controversy.
Isn't it awesome to be settled, knowing what you believe?
I mean, just being able to have Bible verses that you can go to and say, somebody says,
hey, what do you believe about this?
Listen, it doesn't matter what I believe, it matters what God said.
I believe what God said, and that makes me a believer, a follower of truth, but the reality
is that what God said settles it all.
Listen, I didn't always believe like I believe today, and you probably didn't always believe
like you believe today.
There are probably some things that were different in your worldview, that were different in
your perspective.
Why?
Because you were living void of this book.
You didn't know the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, and then after you got saved,
the Holy Spirit of God dwells within you, the Word of God becomes real to you, and
you begin to study it and to know it, and the Holy Spirit of God convinces you of truth.
And hallelujah, hallelujah.
I'm so thankful this morning, without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness.
This morning we're going to look through this verse of Scripture, and I'm going to give
you four thoughts this morning, really, as we just step through the outline.
Number one, if you're taking notes, the incarnation of Christ.
Number one, the incarnation of Christ.
The Bible says, great is the mystery of Godliness, and without controversy, great is the mystery
of godliness.
Notice this, God was manifest in the flesh.
I dealt with this verse of Scripture in Sunday school a few weeks ago because many of the
modern translations move the word God and just put He.
Listen, it was God who was manifest in the flesh.
Jesus is 100% God.
He is the God, man, and we find that it's absolutely important and it's imperative that
we understand, listen, these modern translations, many times, though they claim we're not changing
doctrine, you know what they go after?
The deity of Christ in so many places.
We find here that the Bible says God was manifest in the flesh, the incarnation of the Lord
Jesus Christ.
That's the gospel of John, if you will.
The gospel of John.
We could look at Matthew's gospel as well, really, you could look at Matthew, Luke, you
could look at so many places this morning.
We're going to look at John chapter number one, and one of the precious portions of Scripture
that record for us and reveal to us the incarnation of Christ, that God was manifest in the flesh.
Notice the Bible begins in John chapter one and verse number one, in the beginning was
the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God.
The same was in the beginning with God, all things were made by Him, and without Him was
not anything made that was made.
In Him was life, the life was the light of men.
The light shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehended it not.
It was a man sent from God, whose name was John.
The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the light, that all men through him might
believe.
He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light, that was the true light,
which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.
He was in the world, and the world was made by Him, and the world knew Him not.
He came unto His own, and His own received Him not.
Verse 12, but as many as received Him, to them gave He power to become the sons of God,
even to them who believe on His name, which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of
the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
Notice verse 14, and the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld His glory.
His glory, the glory is of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth.
John bare witness of Him and cried, saying, This was He of whom I spake, He that cometh
after me is preferred before me.
Why?
For He was before me.
That's a great statement of Scripture.
In fact, I just read a lot of great statements of Scripture.
But I want you to understand, the Bible says the beginning was the Word, and the Word was
made flesh and dwelt among us, if you look at verse 1 and then look at verse 14.
We find that in verse number 15 that John, this is John the Baptist, he's bearing witness
the forerunner of Christ.
And we find that John says this, this is, this was He of whom I spake, He that cometh
after me.
What is he referring to when he says after me?
Well chronologically, John the Baptist was older, physically speaking, than the Lord
Jesus Christ, amen?
And we find that he says, He that cometh after me, speaking about a chronological order,
if you will, is preferred before me.
And then notice the statement, for He was before me.
How was it that He was before him if He was born after him?
Well, because He's the eternal God.
God was manifest in the flesh.
It's an amazing truth of God's Word.
It's one that must be accepted by faith.
It's one by which God gives us great truth, and He provides us with various portions of
Scripture to prove to us the deity, the incarnation of Christ, that He is the God-man.
He's a hundred percent God, and a hundred percent man.
Some have referred to it as the hyperstatic union, and we understand this morning that
as we look at this truth, why did God have to come in the form of a man?
Well, so that He could die for the sins of humanity.
It was the only way that man could be redeemed.
It was predetermined before the foundation of the world, according to Ephesians 1, according
to 1 Peter, that Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, God in flesh, that He would be our substitute
on that cross.
And we'll get to that in just a few moments in this verse of Scripture in 1 Timothy 3
and verse 16, but we find that it begins with the incarnation, that God was manifest in
the flesh.
Listen, if He's not man, why is He asleep on the boat?
If He's not God, how could He stand and say, peace, be still?
He's the God-man, the incarnation.
Philippians chapter 2 says it this way.
Philippians chapter 2, where Mark was preaching from chapter 3 last Sunday evening, and what
a great book this is.
I know that we've spoken much about this book.
We find that in chapter number 2, beginning in verse number 5, the Bible says, let this
mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not
proper to be equal with God, but notice it says, but made Himself of no reputation, verse
number 7, and took upon Him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men.
You know, He left the glories of heaven.
John 17 speaks about the glory that He had with the Father before, because of the eternality
of Christ, but He left the glories of heaven and was robed in flesh.
God was manifest in the flesh.
Notice He was made in the likeness of men, verse 8, and being found in fashion as a man,
He humbled Himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.
Wherefore, verse number 9, God also hath highly exalted Him and given Him a name which is
above every name, that in the name of Jesus, what a wonderful name it is, every knee should
bow of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth, and that every
tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, the glory of God the Father, hallelujah.
Often I've said of that passage of Scripture, it's not a matter of if, it's a matter of
when.
Every tongue will confess, every knee will bow.
When that takes place makes all the difference.
If you do it on this side of eternity, man, for all of eternity, you'll be with Jesus
in heaven.
You'll be with your Savior.
But if you do it at the great white throne judgment, you'll be cast in the lake of fire.
You will confess.
You'll just be in the lake of fire for all of eternity.
How sad.
You don't have to.
You can confess now.
Believe that God was manifest in the flesh for you.
He is Lord.
Back in 1 Timothy 3 and verse 16, number one, we see the incarnation of Christ.
Number two, we see the resurrection of Christ.
In 1 Timothy 3, 16, and without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness.
God was manifest in the flesh, and then notice this, justified in the spirit, seen of angels.
This would refer to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ.
In Romans chapter one, we won't take the time to read the account in Matthew.
Look if you will at Romans chapter number one.
We can look again at all four gospel records and see the record that is provided of the
resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ.
I'm thankful that he died in my place.
I'm thankful that he was buried, but he rose, conquering sin, death, and the grave.
We just celebrated Easter just a few weeks ago, of course.
Every Sunday that we worship, that we gather, is because we serve a risen Savior.
Because we serve a risen Savior.
That particular Sunday is a focused Sunday, if you will, on that wonderful reality.
We find here in Romans chapter number one, in verse number four, it says, well let me
back up to verse number three, concerning his son Jesus Christ, our Lord, which was
made of the seed of David according to the flesh.
We just mentioned about the incarnation, but then notice it says in verse number four,
and declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness, how?
By the resurrection from the dead.
Listen, if Jesus went through all of his earthly ministry, and he said all the things that
he said, and then he was crucified on that cross, and he was buried in that tomb, and
he stayed there, then he's a fraud.
Because he said, destroy this temple, and in three days I'll rise it up.
He said multiple times to his disciples, I need to go to Jerusalem, and I'm going to
go there, and they're going to kill me, they're going to crucify me, but I'm going to rise
again.
He said that multiple times.
That's why the angels there at the tomb, they said, he's not here, for he is risen as he
said, hallelujah, and he is declared to be the Son of God with power, how?
By the resurrection from the dead.
He conquered sin, death, and the grave.
He tore the bars away as we sing that wonderful song, and what a joy it is to know that we
serve a risen Savior.
Notice what the Bible says in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, turn over there if you will.
We could take and look at the entirety of this chapter, and what a powerful chapter
it is.
For sake of time, we're just going to read the first several verses, but in 1 Corinthians
15, often referred to as the resurrection chapter, what a great chapter it is.
Paul says this in verse number one, moreover brethren, I declare unto you the gospel, which
I preached unto you, which also you have received, and wherein ye stand, by which also ye are
saved, if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain.
For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died
for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again
the third day according to the Scriptures, that he was seen of Cephas, and of the twelve.
After that he was seen of about five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part
remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep.
After that he was seen of James, then of all the apostles, and last of all he was seen
of me also, as of one born out of due time.
Isn't it wonderful to think about the truth of the resurrection and to understand the
gospel as it's declared here in this passage?
And Paul will go on to say that if Christ be not risen from the dead, then our preaching
is in vain, our faith is in vain, but he declares in verse number 20, but now is Christ risen
from the dead and become the firstfruits of them that slept.
Listen, I have the hope of the resurrection because he is the resurrection and the life.
He conquered sin, death, and the grave, and I have great confidence, listen, I'm hoping
that I live until the rapture of the church, that I hear the trumpet of the Lord, and I'll
be caught up together with him in the clouds to be with him for all of eternity, but the
reality is that I might not live until the rapture.
I hope that I do, but I know this, that if I die before the rapture, that to be absent
from the body is to be present with the Lord.
I have confidence and hope and security that I will be with my Savior.
Oh, they're going to bury my body somewhere, and then someday, the Bible says, the dead
in Christ shall rise first.
Hallelujah, hallelujah, hallelujah.
What a joy.
Listen, I was talking to Bart at the funeral service.
He said, listen, I want you all to have a pizza party when I die.
I want you to just rejoice.
Listen, I'm telling you what, man, when I die, man, it's going to be a time of
of rejoicing, why?
I understand that we sorrow,
we sorrow not as others which have no hope though, amen.
Why, I'm gonna be with my Lord,
I'm gonna be a completely whole.
It's like what D.L. Moody said, he said,
someday you're gonna read in the papers.
Now today we don't read papers too much,
some of you still get in the paper,
but a lot of us don't.
You're gonna read in the paper, he said,
that's all they had by means of communication.
He said, you're gonna read that D.L. Moody is dead.
He said, don't you believe it for a second.
He said, because in that moment,
when you read that headline,
D.L. Moody will be more alive than he's ever been.
Hallelujah, what a joy.
We serve our risen Savior.
Notice what it says over in Revelation chapter one,
Revelation chapter number one.
The Bible says in verse 17, Revelation one,
when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead.
He laid his right hand upon me saying unto me, fear not.
I am the first and the last.
I am he that liveth, notice this, and was dead.
Behold, I am alive forevermore, amen.
And have the keys of hell and of death.
See, Jesus tasted death for every man.
He went to that cruel cross,
but he made one sacrifice for sins forever, one sacrifice.
And it was an accepted sacrifice,
and it's proven through his resurrection.
Without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness.
God was manifest in the flesh, the incarnation.
He was justified in the spirit,
seen of angels, the resurrection.
Number three this morning, we see not only the incarnation,
the resurrection, but I want you to see number three,
the proclamation of the gospel.
The Bible says this in verse number 16,
that he was justified in the spirit, seen of angels,
and then notice this, preached unto the Gentiles.
And then it says this, believed on in the world.
I begin to look at this phraseology
and thinking about the proclamation of the gospel,
and the reality is that this truth of preaching the gospel
started and it's not yet ended, amen.
We're still proclaiming the gospel.
That's what we're to be busy about doing
is proclaiming the glorious gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.
It is the cornerstone of our faith
that he rose from the dead,
but we understand that Paul says in that chapter
in 1 Corinthians 15, I declare unto you the gospel.
The gospel is the good news.
The gospel is the best news, amen.
Listen, the world's full of enough bad news, amen.
You don't have to go real far.
In fact, you can go real far in strolling
and just get bad news and bad news and bad news
and bad news and bad news.
But I'm gonna tell you what, we got the best news ever.
The best news, the gospel.
And we see that the Bible says
that he was preached unto the Gentiles,
he's believed on in the world.
I'm thankful that the gospel is powerful.
I'm thankful that people, listen,
each one of us that are here this morning
that are saved by the grace of God,
we are evidence that the gospel was preached
and believed on in the world, hallelujah.
This morning, we think about the proclamation of the gospel.
There are some today that say,
well, it just doesn't work anymore.
No, no, no, it does work.
The gospel is still the power of God unto salvation
to this very moment.
The gospel is still the only message
that we as a church are commanded to distribute,
to give, and to give freely.
What a joy to share the gospel.
Oftentimes, when we think about the gospel,
it starts in a negative type of way that we're sinners.
Well, it's just a human truth.
It's a condition that affects, that impacts all of humanity.
And it's one of those things,
oftentimes I try to share with someone like,
hey, listen, we're all in the same boat together.
We're all sinners.
I happen to be a sinner saved by grace
that now not so much referred to as a sinner, but a saint.
Not because of anything special in me,
but because of him, Christ in me, the hope of glory.
What a joy.
This morning, we see that that message
that begins with the humanity,
the condition of humanity being lost sinners,
but it talks about the fact that,
that yes, the wages of sin is death,
but what a great conjunction,
the gift of God is eternal life
through Jesus Christ, our Lord.
What a great truth.
We find that the Bible tells us in Matthew chapter 28
that Jesus stands there.
He had told his disciples after his resurrection
to meet him there.
He's there in Galilee and we find that they're there
and the scene is set for us in Matthew chapter 28,
beginning in verse 16.
It says, then the 11 disciples went away into Galilee,
into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them.
Thank God for their obedience.
And the Bible says, and when they saw him,
they worshiped him.
By the way, when you see Jesus,
all you're gonna do is what John did over there
in Revelation one, you're gonna fall at his face,
at his feet.
You're just gonna worship him.
Notice here, the verse says in verse 17,
but some doubted, but some doubted.
You know, so often we can be critical of those who doubt.
We can be critical.
But you know, it's our responsibility
to come alongside and to help them.
We've been studying in 1 Thessalonians.
I don't want you to turn there,
but we've been studying now for weeks on Wednesday evening.
The Bible tells us that not only are we to warn them
that are unruly, but we're to comfort the feeble-minded,
support the weak and be patient toward all men.
There are some that doubt, that struggle.
And here we find that they worshiped him, some doubted.
We often refer to Thomas from John's gospel,
doubting Thomas, unless I see.
Verse 18, notice what Jesus says as they're gathered.
And Jesus came and spake unto them saying,
"'All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth.
"'Go ye therefore and teach all nations,
"'baptizing them in the name of the Father
"'or the Son or the Holy Ghost,
"'teaching them to observe all things
"'whatsoever I've commanded you.
"'And lo, I am with you always,
"'even unto the end of the world.
"'Amen.'"
We note here in the text of Scripture,
Matthew chapter 28, that we're to go,
the Bible says, to all nations.
We find that the Bible says in Mark 16,
preach the gospel to every creature.
We find that the Bible tells us in Acts chapter one,
that we're to go to Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria,
the uttermost part of the world.
We find that the gospel is for all people.
What a blessing to know that God loves the world.
He loves all people.
We find that as we look specifically
at the text of Scripture,
the Bible says he's preached unto the Gentiles.
You understand that he came into his own,
we read John chapter number one,
and his own received him not.
John chapter number one,
that's referring to the children of Israel, the Israelites.
And we find that even in John chapter number one,
we read of that in John chapter number 10,
when Jesus is speaking about being the good shepherd,
he speaks of a group of sheep,
and then he talks about another group.
The second group that he talks about is the Gentiles,
what he's talking about.
And we find here this morning,
that as the Bible reveals to us
that he's preached unto the Gentiles,
understand with me this morning,
that he came to his own and his own received him not.
No, it was they that stood and said, crucify him.
We have no other king, crucify him.
He came unto his own, his own received him not.
The Bible teaches us in the book of Romans,
I don't have time to develop the entirety of the theology
this morning, but the Bible teaches about the Gentiles
being graft in, the wild branch being graft in.
What a joy that the gospel then came to the Gentiles.
By the way, it was always God's plan in the Old Testament,
the children of Israel had a responsibility
to make God known to all the world.
They failed miserably,
just as the church has failed miserably.
But the reality this morning
is that he's preached unto the Gentiles.
Does it mean that the gospel doesn't work for the Jews?
No, the Bible says for the gospel
is the power of God unto salvation
to everyone that believeth,
to the Jew first and also to the Greek,
Romans one and verse 16.
And we find this morning that the Bible tells us
that blindness has happened in part to the Jews, to Israel.
And we see that.
We see that Israel has rejected Messiah.
In fact, today, Israel is looking for Messiah.
They reject Jesus Christ as being Messiah.
And as a whole,
speaking with a very broad paintbrush this morning,
Israel today is looking for their Messiah.
In fact, you can read of various things
that are taking place in Israel
just within the last couple of weeks.
The Levites, they were singing, right?
They were getting ready for singing in the temple.
It was just a couple of weeks ago,
that was in the news and it's happening.
And you understand about all of the
pieces of furniture and all the things that they're doing.
Why, they're looking for their Messiah.
Their Messiah came, but they rejected him.
We find that today the gospel is effective for all people,
Jew or Gentile.
But we see specifically that it says preached
unto the Gentiles because we see this mystery of the church
where Paul is giving the instruction of the church here
in 1 Timothy 2 and 3 that thou mayest know
how thou oughtest to behave thyself.
We've dealt with that the last couple of weeks,
but we find that he gives in the book of Ephesians
beautifully this mystery of the church,
how the church would be this entity,
that this organism that is made up,
it's a living organism, it's a living body
that's made up of Jews and Gentiles.
We are in Christ, hallelujah.
It's wonderful to understand that.
This morning, we need to be busy about preaching
the gospel to every creature.
In Acts chapter number eight and verse number four,
I won't take the time to turn there,
but the intensity of the persecution reaches a high level.
We find that Stephen had been martyred.
They'd already gone through the process of imprisoning
and threatening and all those types of things.
And the enemy has attacked from without,
the enemy has attacked from within.
Stephen is stoned in chapter number seven.
And we find that we come to chapter number eight
and that persecution is just intensifying
so much so that the Bible says
that the believers in Jerusalem were scattered.
Now, through that scattering,
the Bible tells us in Acts eight and verse number four,
that they that were scattered abroad
went everywhere preaching the word.
That's what they were commanded to do in Acts chapter number one.
Was to go everywhere and preach the gospel.
Thomas, excuse me, Philip is found preaching
in various places, he ends up in Samaria,
he ends up at the Ethiopian eunuch
and you see all that's taking place.
And you find that the gospel is going forth.
So much so that as you continue to read
through the book of Acts, the Bible says of those
that would be in opposition to the church of God,
that they say these that have turned the world upside down
have come hither also.
Man, they did what they were commanded to do.
Notice what the Bible says in Revelation five.
Revelation five is a beautiful scene
where God just for a moment opens up the curtains of heaven
if you will, and allows John to see this vision
and allows commands really instructs John to write this
and has preserved it for us.
When I read that truth in 1st Timothy 3.16
of the proclamation of the gospel that Jesus,
the one who is God, the incarnation,
the one who died, who rose conquering sin,
death and the grave, that he has preached
unto the Gentiles, that he has believed on in the world.
And you come to Revelation chapter number five
and the Bible says in verse number nine,
notice and they sung a new song
saying thou art worthy to take the book,
to open the seals thereof, notice for thou was slain
and has redeemed us to God by thy blood.
And then notice this phrase, out of every kindred
and tongue and people and nation
and has made us unto our God, kings and priests
and we shall reign on the earth.
That's really looking forward to the millennial reign
of Christ in verse number 10.
But in verse nine, did you notice when we read this truth
of the proclamation of the gospel that he was preached
unto the Gentiles that he was believed on in the world
that there in verse number nine, the Bible says
that thou was slain and has redeemed us to God
by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue
and people and nation.
Heaven's gonna be a wonderful place.
First and foremost, because Jesus is gonna be there,
our savior is gonna be there,
we're gonna be in his presence.
But can you imagine the throng of people
around the throne room of God?
From every, the Bible says tongue and kindred
and tongue and people and nation.
Hallelujah, hallelujah.
We find this morning that it's this gospel message
that is still to be proclaimed.
His last command is our first priority.
You know, as we preach the gospel, we're obeying Christ.
We're sowing the seed of the gospel
as we're commanded to do so.
And we're honoring the Lord.
We're bringing glory to God.
It's God who gives the increase.
The Bible says that some plant, some water,
but God gives the increase.
In fact, as Paul is sharing that very truth
with the believers in Corinth, he's saying this, who am I?
Some of you are saying I'm of Paul, I'm of Cephas
and so on and so forth.
And there's this division, but who am I?
All we are are co-laborers, co-workers with Christ.
And some of us sow the seed and some of us get to water,
but it's God who gives the increase.
And it may be that God would allow you to speak to someone
and share the gospel with them
and they may bow their head and trust Christ
as their savior.
And what glorious, glorious truth that is.
The Bible says that he was preached
under the Gentiles, believed on in the world.
It's a wonderful thing if you've ever had the opportunity
to share the gospel with someone
and see them bow their head and trust Christ.
It's a wonderful, glorious thing.
Apart from your own personal salvation,
it's probably the highest spiritual excitement
that you'll ever enjoy.
When somebody else bows their head
and asks Christ to save them.
And in a moment, they were dead,
but they've been made alive, quickened.
It's amazing, it's an amazing truth.
The proclamation of the gospel, the gospel still works.
The gospel still works.
There are some today that are trying to water it down.
There are some today that are trying to come
with a new message, trying to be more inclusive
and what have you, whatever terms you wanna use.
Understand this morning, the gospel still works.
And it is only the gospel that works to transform a life
that someone could pass from death unto life.
It's only through the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Number four, if you're taking notes back
in 1 Timothy 3 and verse 16,
the Bible says, and without controversy,
great is the mystery of godliness.
God was manifest in the flesh, his incarnation,
justified in the spirit, seen of angels, his resurrection,
preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world,
the proclamation of the gospel.
And then it ends with this, received up into glory.
Number four this morning, I see the ascension of Christ,
the ascension of Christ.
Turn over to Acts chapter number one, if you will.
Be honest with you, Acts chapter one is the first 11 verses
of this passage are just precious verses.
I love going and reading these verses and putting my mind,
if you will, in that sanctified imagination
of being in the presence of Jesus
after he'd risen from the dead,
after he'd walked on this earth and had given instruction.
And now it comes to this ascension.
The scene in Acts chapter number one is just magnificent.
We find that the Bible says in verse number six,
when they therefore were come together,
they asked of him saying, Lord,
wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?
Isn't it funny how people are still asking
the same question all these years later?
They forgot to read the next verse
because Jesus gave an answer.
People still asking the same question
that Jesus already answered.
Here's what Jesus said, it is not for you to know
the times or the seasons which the father
hath put in his own power.
You know why I keep asking the same question
that we already have an answer to?
Because we want to know.
And we're not real good at taking a,
it's not for you to know.
Don't you know who I am?
God said, it's not for you to know.
And so guess what?
He's revealed to us what he wants us to know
and what he wants us to do.
That we don't need to be so concerned
and so focused on what he's already told us,
it's not for you to know.
Verse eight, but ye shall receive power.
After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you
and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem
and all Judean and Sumerian
unto the uttermost part of the earth.
And when he had spoken these things,
can you imagine being there?
They ask a question and Jesus gives them an answer
and then he gives them the gospel,
or excuse me, the great commission again
in verse number eight.
And then as he spoke these things,
the Bible says, while they beheld,
he was taken up and a cloud received him
out of their sight.
And I know for most of us here this morning,
you've read this, you know about this.
Yep, it's the ascension and just keep on moving.
But I hope this morning you could look at this as if you were a disciple that day and it's the first time you ever read
this I
Remember, listen, I remember the first time I ever read some things in the Bible. I
Don't know how many times I've read the Bible through at this point in my life
But I remember the first time I ever read some of the amazing things in God's Word
I remember being in Bible college and sitting there in my class and hearing the professor and I'm like I have never heard this before
This is absolutely amazing and I'm looking at some other students. I'm saying did you did you did you they're like you didn't know
No, man, I had no idea
This is awesome
But unfortunately
There were some that had kind of gotten over it
Listen, if we're not careful as Christians we can get over it. Oh, yeah. I know that I've heard that
Jesus
Is speaking to them and while he's speaking to them he starts ascending out of their sight
The Bible says that a cloud
Received him out of their sight. Can you imagine you've never seen anything like this before?
Hello, I've never seen anything like this before
In my sanctified imagination I have I've stood with the disciples here in Acts chapter 1 and I've tried to picture myself being there
And the Bible says that in verse number 10 while they look steadfastly toward heaven. Yep. That's what I would have been doing, too
Such an amazing
spectacular
Event that is recorded and they're standing gazing up into heaven. I
Mean, I don't know the Bible doesn't tell us of any conversation. Perhaps it's just silent
as they behold him going up into heaven
the Bible says that as they stood there looking steadfastly notice it says
Behold two men stood by them in white apparel
And notice the message it says which also said ye men of Galilee
Ye men of Galilee
Why stand ye gazing up into heaven? Well
Seriously, because Jesus he was just talking to us
And he is saying you're asking me why I'm looking up into heaven. This is amazing. This is spectacular
This same Jesus
Which
Has taken up from you into heaven
notice this
shall so come in like manner as
You have seen him go
into heaven
Wow
What a message from these two men in white apparel. I believe angels
What a message from these men that stood there and said to these disciples
Hey, what are you doing? Why stand you gazing up into heaven?
And then they give this great truth
See, I think that there's several things that we can note in this passage of Scripture number one
Jesus had given them instruction
What was the instruction to go and preach the gospel to every creature?
That there to be but you shall receive power after that
The Holy Ghost has come upon you and you shall be witnesses in me both in Jerusalem and all
Judaean and Samaritan to the uttermost part of the earth
He gave them that final instruction and then he departs out of their sight and the angels they these two men they say
Why are you standing gazing up into heaven? You have your marching orders?
Almost as if to say get to it. Listen, we have our marching orders. They'd be busy about proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ
But then he says this same Jesus
Hallelujah for the the truth of the Ascension it's interesting to me that first Timothy 3 16 ends with the Ascension of Jesus Christ
But of course this morning and I believe
Even for Timothy and for Paul and for those that would read this letter throughout the centuries that the Ascension of Jesus Christ
reminds us of
His return the very truth that he ascended and they watched him leave the earth
The Bible says that they were told this same Jesus which has taken up from you into heaven shall
So come in like manner as you have seen him going to heaven
Didn't tell him when he was gonna come
He just said he was gonna come
Remember Jesus said let not your heart be troubled you believe in God believe also in me and my father's house are many mansions
If it were not so I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you
And then he says this if I go and prepare a place for you
I will come again and
Receive you into myself that where I am
There ye may be also in John 14 verses 1 through 3 what a great truth of God's Word
Jesus said I will come again these angels these men these messengers
They say this same Jesus you've watched him you've beheld as he disappeared out of your sight. He's coming again
Hallelujah, I don't know when he's coming
The scoffers
according to 2nd Peter chapter 3
By the way, there's a lot of scoffers
They say where is the promise of his coming? Where's the promise of his turn? I mean everything just continues as it always has been
You know, what's interesting about the text of Scripture in 2nd Timothy or 2nd Peter chapter 3 it says of this they are willingly
ignorant
It's not that God hasn't given the truth. They just don't want the truth
They'd rather be in darkness
to be in ignorance
This they're willingly ignorant. I remember a preacher said this
It disturbs me greatly when someone does not know truth and I desire greatly for them to know truth
But what disturbs me even greater than that is
When I meet someone who does not want to know the truth
Wow, what a powerful statement
There are people that just want to be ignorant. They just they're willingly ignorant
They don't want to know but here's the wonderful truth the response in 2nd Peter chapter number 3
The Lord is not slack
Concerning his promise as some men count slackness
But as long suffering to us word not willing that any should perish
But that all should come to repentance. I don't know when Jesus is coming back. I know
That as we look at this portion of Scripture this morning
I
Know the incarnation. I
Know the resurrection. I know that his gospel has been proclaimed and I know he ascended to heaven and
I know he's coming back. I just don't know the hour
And neither do you I know we can say often I think it's getting close
We can look at various things. I don't know
But the wonderful thing about this promise is that it should motivate us to live godly
The Bible says in 1st John if you look at chapters 2 and 3 the end of chapter 2 the beginning of chapter number 3
The Bible says that we could be ashamed of him at his appearing. I
Don't want to be ashamed of Christ at his appearing
Who will be ashamed of him at his appearing? Well those that aren't doing what they're supposed to do
Have a picture in your mind of the little boy with his hand in the cookie jar when mom comes around the corner
He's caught he's ashamed typically he's happy to see mama, but not on that occasion
Amen I
Don't want to be ashamed of Christ at his appearing it goes on to say in the third chapter that every man that hath this hope
See because we shall be like him
We see him we shall be like him every man that hath this hope was he do he purifies himself even as he is pure
We need to be about the father's business
We look at this verse of Scripture. What a powerful verse 1st, Timothy 316. I mean a
single verse of Scripture that that just captures so much
no wonder there are theologians that would
Believe and they would suggest that this verse of Scripture would serve as a
Hymn or an anthem perhaps it did. I don't know
But one thing I know is that the truth of this verse of Scripture is
Comforting it's encouraging and it's motivating
this morning
without
Controversy listen, it's settled truth
settled truth
God was great as the mystery of Godliness. God was manifest in the flesh
Aren't you so thankful that God left the throne room of heaven came to the sin-cursed world?
So that he could take your place in my place on a cruel cross
He wasn't just
Manifest in the flesh, but he was justified in the spirit scene of angels. He rose conquering sin death in the grave
He is alive forevermore
preached unto the Gentiles
Believed on in the world. I'm evidence your evidence this morning that the gospel works
the gospel works and then it says
received up
into glory
That's where he is right now. You see at the right-hand throne of the Father
The Bible tells us that he ever liveth to make intercession for us in Hebrews chapter 7
At just the right time
God's time
the next event on the prophetic the prophetic calendar is for Jesus to come back and
we'll
hear that? I mean, it's going to be in a moment in the twinkling of an eye, but the Bible
says that the voice of the archangel, right, the trump of God, you read in Revelation 4,
come up hither. What a joy. Listen, we serve a great God this morning. We ought to rejoice
in knowing the truth, but we ought to be motivated to proclaim the truth because there's a lost
and dying world. There are people that we come in contact with every day of our lives
that they don't know the truth that we've just looked at this morning. They can't rejoice
in the same way in which we rejoice this morning. They don't have the assurance that we have
this morning. So it's our duty, it's our responsibility to lead them to Christ, to take for them,
to them, excuse me, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we leave it in God's hands.
Some plant, some water, God gives the increase. Let's pray together. Father, we love you.
We thank you so much for loving us. We thank you for the privilege of being able to gather
together this morning. We thank you for this verse of Scripture. I think about this single
statement, that's my God. That's my God. You came. You died. You rose. You instructed.
You ascended. One day you're coming back. You intercede for us now. You're our advocate,
our intercessor. What a joy. God, if there's one here this morning that's not sure of heaven,
they've never trusted Christ as their Savior, I pray that today would be the day of their
salvation. Lord, they'd trust Christ alone for their soul's salvation. I pray for every
child of God, Lord, would this verse of Scripture not only encourage us, but would it motivate
us to get busy about the work that you've called us to do? I pray that in these moments
of invitation that you'd have your will and way, that you'd move and work in hearts and
lives as only you can. We'll give you the honor and glory for all that you'll do. For
it's in Christ's name we pray. Would you stand